Version control systems are a category of software tools that help a software team manage changes to source code over time. 
Version control software keeps track of every modification to the code in a special kind of database. 
If a mistake is made, developers can turn back the clock and compare earlier versions of the code to help fix the mistake 
while minimizing disruption to all team members.

Use of Version Control System:

A repository: It can be thought as a database of changes. It contains all the edits and historical versions (snapshots) of the project.
Copy of Work (sometimes called as checkout): It is the personal copy of all the files in a project. You can edit to this copy, without affecting the work of others and you can finally commit your changes to a repository when you are done making your changes.
Types of Version Control Systems:

Local Version Control Systems
Centralized Version Control Systems
Distributed Version Control Systems
Local Version Control Systems: It is one of the simplest forms and has a database that kept all the changes to files under revision control. RCS is one of the most common VCS tools. It keeps patch sets (differences between files) in a special format on disk. By adding up all the patches it can then re-create what any file looked like at any point in time.

Centralized Version Control Systems: Centralized version control systems contain just one repository and each user gets their own working copy. You need to commit to reflecting your changes in the repository. It is possible for others to see your changes by updating.

Two things are required to make your changes visible to others which are:

You commit
They update

Distributed Version Control Systems: Distributed version control systems contain multiple repositories. Each user has their own repository and working copy. Just committing your changes will not give others access to your changes. This is because commit will reflect those changes in your local repository and you need to push them in order to make them visible on the central repository. Similarly, When you update, you do not get other’s changes unless you have first pulled those changes into your repository.

To make your changes visible to others, 4 things are required:

You commit
You push
They pull
They update

